test/Business_Logic/TornadoCash_Governance/README.md, before:

# TornadoCash Governance Takeover
- **Type:** Exploit
- **Network:** Ethereum 
- **Total lost**: ~2.7MM USD (1M `TORN`)
- **Category:** Business Logic
- **Vulnerable contracts:**
- - [Tornado Cash Governance](https://etherscan.io/address/0x5efda50f22d34f262c29268506c5fa42cb56a1ce#code)
- **Attack transactions:**
- - **Stage 0**
- - - [Proposal Factory Deploy - Attacker 2](https://etherscan.io/tx/0x3e93ee75ffeb019f1d841b84695538571946fd9477dcd3ecf0790851f48fbd1a)
- - - [Proposal Factory Deploy - Debug](https://explorer.phalcon.xyz/tx/eth/0x3e93ee75ffeb019f1d841b84695538571946fd9477dcd3ecf0790851f48fbd1a?line=0&debugLine=0)
- - - [Initial Torn Lock - Attacker 2](https://etherscan.io/tx/0xf93536162943bd36df11de6ed11233589bb5f139ff4e9e425cb5256e4349a9b4)
- - **Stage 1**
- - - [Submit Proposal - Attacker 2](https://etherscan.io/tx/0x34605f1d6463a48b818157f7b26d040f8dd329273702a0618e9e74fe350e6e0d)
- - - [Submit Proposal - Debug](https://explorer.phalcon.xyz/tx/eth/0x34605f1d6463a48b818157f7b26d040f8dd329273702a0618e9e74fe350e6e0d?line=0&debugLine=0)
- - **Stage 2**
- - - [Deploy multiple accounts - Attacker 1](https://etherscan.io/tx/0x26672ad9140d11b64964e79d0ed5971c26492786cfe0edf57034229fdc7dc529)
- - - [Deploy multiple accounts - Debug](https://explorer.phalcon.xyz/tx/eth/0x26672ad9140d11b64964e79d0ed5971c26492786cfe0edf57034229fdc7dc529?line=835&debugLine=835)
- - **Stage 3**
- - - [Destroy proposal - Attacker 2](https://etherscan.io/tx/0xd3a570af795405e141988c48527a595434665089117473bc0389e83091391adb)
- - - [Destroy proposal - Debug](https://explorer.phalcon.xyz/tx/eth/0xd3a570af795405e141988c48527a595434665089117473bc0389e83091391adb?line=0&debugLine=0)
- - **Stage 4**
- - - [Redeploy proposal - Attacker 2](https://etherscan.io/tx/0xa7d20ccdbc2365578a106093e82cc9f6ec5d03043bb6a00114c0ad5d03620122)
- - - [Redeploy proposal - Debug](https://explorer.phalcon.xyz/tx/eth/0xa7d20ccdbc2365578a106093e82cc9f6ec5d03043bb6a00114c0ad5d03620122?line=2&debugLine=2)
- - **Stage 5**
- - - [Execute proposal - Attacker 2](https://etherscan.io/tx/0x3274b6090685b842aca80b304a4dcee0f61ef8b6afee10b7c7533c32fb75486d)
- - - [Execute proposal - Debug](https://explorer.phalcon.xyz/tx/eth/0x3274b6090685b842aca80b304a4dcee0f61ef8b6afee10b7c7533c32fb75486d?line=3&debugLine=3)
- - **Stage 6**
- - - [Drain TORN - Attacker 1](https://etherscan.io/tx/0x13e2b7359dd1c13411342fd173750a19252f5b0d92af41be30f9f62167fc5b94)
- - - [Drain TORN - Debug](https://explorer.phalcon.xyz/tx/eth/0x13e2b7359dd1c13411342fd173750a19252f5b0d92af41be30f9f62167fc5b94?line=12&debugLine=12)
- **Attacker Addresses**: 
- - Attacker 1 EOA: [0x592340957ebc9e4afb0e9af221d06fdddf789de9](https://etherscan.io/address/0x592340957ebc9e4afb0e9af221d06fdddf789de9)
- - Attacker 2 EOA: [0x092123663804f8801b9b086b03b98d706f77bd59](https://etherscan.io/address/0x092123663804f8801b9b086b03b98d706f77bd59)
- **Attack Block:**: From `17,248,593` up to `17,304,425`  
- **Date:** May 21, 2023
- **Reproduce:** `forge test --match-contract Exploit_TornadoCashGovernance -vvv`

> **NOTE** 
This reproduction uses a new feature introduced by Coinspect into Foundry in [PR 5033](https://github.com/foundry-rs/foundry/pull/5033). 
It is possible that this feature still has not made it into the latest Foundry release, so to reproduce this attack you will need 
to build Foundry from source. Luckily, that's pretty simple:

```
$ git clone https://github.com/foundry-rs/foundry
$ cd foundry && cargo build 
```

Then just run `$PATH_TO_YOUR_FOUNDRY/target/debug/forge test --match-contract Exploit_TornadoCashGovernance -vvv`.

## Step-by-step Overview
The Tornado Cash Governance system faced an attack that was initiated with what seemed to be a benign proposal. Yet, it contained a concealed instruction that allowed for its replacement. Once governance participants unknowingly approved this seemingly harmless proposal, the attacker overwrote the code at the same address with a new proposal implementation. This sequence of events resulted in the alteration of the Governance storage, followed by the unauthorized removal of `TORN` tokens.

Two accounts played pivotal roles in the incident: Attacker 2 (Proposal Handler) and Attacker 1 (Drainer Controller). Attacker 2 was responsible for managing the proposal's life cycle including its deployment, submission, destruction, re-deployment, and execution. Attacker 1, on the other hand, controlled the drainer contracts which facilitated the unlocking of `TORN` from Tornado Cash.

### **Stage 0: Initial Transactions [Proposal Handler]**
Attacker 2 [withdrawn 10 ETH](https://etherscan.io/tx/0xf1f298d6168cac774cfe356a73380d29aed5429abc1ba785f162a59c85de7867) from Tornado Cash and then [swapped](https://etherscan.io/tx/0x82dca5a88a43377cab4748073a3a46c8aa120d42c5c5d802789cf17df22f0acd) these into 1017 TORN through `1inch`. Concurrently, a `proposal factory`, a `middle` or `transient` and a `proposal` contracts were deployed. Attacker 2 then locked the `1017 TORN` into the Tornado Cash Governance, enabling proposal submission.

### **Stage 1: Proposal Submission [Proposal Handler]**
With the `TORN` tokens now locked, Attacker 2 submitted the proposal to the Tornado Governance. This proposal was structured similarly to [Proposal #16](https://etherscan.io/address/0xd4b776caf2a39aeceb21a5dd7812082e2391b03d#code) but included a [`selfdestruct`](https://explorer.phalcon.xyz/tx/eth/0xd3a570af795405e141988c48527a595434665089117473bc0389e83091391adb?line=3&debugLine=3) instruction within an `emergencyStop` function.

### **Stage 2: Account Creation [Drainer Controller]**
Attacker 1 created 100 subsidiary accounts (minions), locking zero `TORN` balance in Tornado for each one. This last step is a pretty curious yet interesting one, as the attack could have succeeded even without any `TORN` approved and locked by those 100 subsidiary accounts.

### **Stage 3: Proposal Destruction [Proposal Handler]**
Attacker 2 triggered the `emergencyStop` from the factory before the proposal execution, leading to the destruction of both the `proposal` and the `transient` contract. This resets the nonce of the `transient` contract, thus allowing the modification of the `proposal's` implementation.

### **Stage 4: Redeployment [Proposal Handler]**
Attacker 2 then redeployed the `transient` and a new malicious `proposal` on the same addresses as before using `create2` and `create`, relying on the nonce reset of the previous step (relevant for `create`) and on the deterministic deployments via `create2`. More details about this step in the next section.

### **Stage 5: Locked Balance Modification [Proposal Handler]**
Upon proposal execution within the Tornado Cash's context (using `delegatecall`), Attacker 2 employed `sstore` instructions added into the new proposal's implementation to alter the `lockedBalance` mapping of the 100 accounts created by Attacker 1, assigning `10,000` locked `TORN` to each account.

### **Stage 6: Token Transfer [Drainer Controller]**
Once the balance of each minion account was updated, Attacker 1 initiated the `unlock` and `transfer` of `TORN` tokens, directing all the funds to their own account.

## Detailed Description

This attack relies on several important concepts such as different ways of deploying contracts (`create2` and `create`), context of execution (proposals are executed with `delegatecall`), mapping slot calculation (implemented in the malicious proposal). We will dissect them in this section.  

### Deployments with `create` and `create2`

The attacker 2 managed to deploy, destruct and redeploy the `proposal` on the same address. This was possible thanks to the following process:

1) Deploy a factory capable of:
   1) Storing or retrieving the creation code for the initial proposal and the malicious one.
   2) Deploying a `transient` contract with `create2`
   3) Triggering the destruction of the `transient` and the `proposal`
2) The transient deployed, used `create` to deploy the `proposal` and its code was immutable. The attacker was able to deploy two different implementations of the proposal as this was coordinated by the main factory.

**Using `create2` to deploy the `transient`**

The attacker leveraged from salted deployments of an immutable `transient` contract with `create2`:

```solidity
        deployedTransientContract = address(new TransientContract{salt: _salt}());
```

This type of deployments where introduced in the [EIP-1014](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-1014) by Vitalik Buterin (@vbuterin):

> Adds a new opcode (`CREATE2`) at `0xf5`, which takes 4 stack arguments: `endowment`, `memory_start`, `memory_length`, `salt`. Behaves identically to `CREATE` (`0xf0`), except using `keccak256( 0xff ++ address ++ salt ++ keccak256(init_code))[12:]` instead of the usual sender-and-nonce-hash as the address where the contract is initialized at.

```solidity
initialisation_code = memory[offset:offset+size]
address = keccak256(0xff + sender_address + salt + keccak256(initialisation_code))[12:]
```
By not changing the implementation at any point of the `transient` contract, if the deployment is made passing the same `salt`, its address would be always the same, even after `selfdestruct`.

**Using `create` to deploy the `transient`**

The legacy `create` [opcode](https://www.evm.codes/#f0?fork=shanghai) deploys contracts where the destination address is calculated as the rightmost 20 bytes (160 bits) of the `Keccak-256` hash of the encoding of the `sender` address followed by its `nonce`:

```solidity
address = keccak256(rlp([sender_address,sender_nonce]))[12:]
```

**How all comes together after `selfdestruct`?**

The `selfdestruct` [opcode](https://www.evm.codes/#ff?fork=shanghai) empties a contract account setting its `balance` and `nonce` to 0 as well as deleting its code (code size is also set to 0). 

Using a constant implementation of the `transient` allowed the attacker to deploy via the factory with `create2` the `transient` two times at the same address (before and after the destruction). Allowing the subsequent `create` call to also deploy two different proposals in the same address.

The attacker destroyed the `transient` to reset its nonce, allowing this contract to deploy the new malicious proposal to the same address as the sender will be always the same and the nonce will be reset to the same value as the current one when first deploying the initial proposal's implementation. Because the `proposal` is deployed using `create`, the attacker was able to change its implementation at will as `create` does not depend on the deployed bytecode.


### Calculating the memory slots
Once the attacker is able to perform arbitrary modifications on the Governance's storage - because proposals are executed via `delegatecall` - they need to know which storage slots to manipulate. 

The slot that a variable occupies in the storage is predictable and [well documented](https://docs.soliditylang.org/en/v0.8.20/internals/layout_in_storage.html). A variable is put into the position `p`
following the order in which they were defined after applying C3-linearization. We also know that mapping keys are stored on the 
`keccak256(h(k).p)` slot (where `h` is a simple pad to 32-bytes).

The mapping to manipulate, `lockedBalance`, is not actually defined in `Governance`, but instead in `Core`, a contract the `Governance` indirectly inherits from (by inheriting from `Delegation`). 
Because inheritance is used, linearization order is actually important.

```solidity
contract Governance is Initializable, Configuration, Delegation, EnsResolve {
```

At this point, the attacker has several options to calculate to find `p`, including some pen and paper. For us, the most reliable way 
was simply to go to the bytecode of the contract. We know there is a `lockedBalance(address)` method, as the mapping is public. 
We can calculate its signature using `cast`:

```bash
$ cast sig 'lockedBalance(address)'
0x9ae697bf
```

Using a [Solidity decompiler](https://ethervm.io/decompile), we find the dispatch entry for that method in the bytecode:

```
    } else if (var0 == 0x9ae697bf) {
        // Dispatch table entry for lockedBalance(address)
        var1 = msg.value;
    
        if (var1) { revert(memory[0x00:0x00]); }
    
        var1 = 0x03b7;
        var2 = 0x063b;
        var3 = msg.data.length;
        var4 = 0x04;
        var2 = func_2982(var3, var4);
        var2 = func_063B(var2);
        goto label_03B7;
```

After some digging, we realize `func_063B` must be our candidate, and `var2` must be the `address` used as input.

```
   function func_063B(var arg0) returns (var arg0) {
        memory[0x20:0x40] = 0x3b;
        memory[0x00:0x20] = arg0;
        return storage[keccak256(memory[0x00:0x40])];
    }
```

That looks exactly like what we are after: it concatenates `address | 0x3b` and returns the storage at point `storage[keccak256(h(address)|h(0x3b))]`.

So know we know that `p` is `0x3b` and we can now write in the appropriate storage slots by doing an `SSTORE`.

### Context of execution
Tornado Cash Governance [executes](https://explorer.phalcon.xyz/tx/eth/0x3274b6090685b842aca80b304a4dcee0f61ef8b6afee10b7c7533c32fb75486d?line=2&debugLine=2) proposals with `delegatecall()`:

```solidity
  function execute(uint256 proposalId) external payable virtual {
    require(state(proposalId) == ProposalState.AwaitingExecution, "Governance::execute: invalid proposal state");
    Proposal storage proposal = proposals[proposalId];
    proposal.executed = true;

    address target = proposal.target;
    require(Address.isContract(target), "Governance::execute: not a contract");
    (bool success, bytes memory data) = target.delegatecall(abi.encodeWithSignature("executeProposal()"));
    if (!success) {
      if (data.length > 0) {
        revert(string(data));
      } else {
        revert("Proposal execution failed");
      }
    }

    emit ProposalExecuted(proposalId);
  }
```

This opcode works by running the code of another contract (referred to as an external implementation) within the context of the initiating contract. While the operations are governed by the code of the external contract, any changes made during the execution, such as variable modifications and logical operations, directly impact the state of the initiating contract.

Because the call is executed in the context of Tornado Cash the attacker was able to write the mapping slots for each one of the minions with the process shown above by executing the malicious proposal with the additional `sstore` instructions:

```solidity
    // For educational purposes, how to get the slot for a mapping key, knowing the mapping's slot
    function getStorageSlot(address account, uint256 slot) public pure returns (bytes32 hashSlot) {
        assembly {
            // Store account in memory scratch space
            mstore(0, account)
            // Store slot number in memory after the account
            mstore(32, slot)
            // Get the hash from previously stored account and slot
            hashSlot := keccak256(0, 64)
        }
    }

    // Write the slot for a mapping key, the initial mapping slot must be known (storage stack)
    function writeSlot(address account, uint256 value, uint256 slot) public {
        bytes32 slotHash = getStorageSlot(account, slot);
        assembly {
            sstore(slotHash, value)
        }
    }
```
## Possible mitigations

1. Governance contracts should check that the `code` that was voted is exactly the same that is going to be executed and revert otherwise.

Commit message:

update: new forge nightly version with Coinspect's cheatcode

test/Business_Logic/TornadoCash_Governance/README.md, after:

# TornadoCash Governance Takeover
- **Type:** Exploit
- **Network:** Ethereum 
- **Total lost**: ~2.7MM USD (1M `TORN`)
- **Category:** Business Logic
- **Vulnerable contracts:**
- - [Tornado Cash Governance](https://etherscan.io/address/0x5efda50f22d34f262c29268506c5fa42cb56a1ce#code)
- **Attack transactions:**
- - **Stage 0**
- - - [Proposal Factory Deploy - Attacker 2](https://etherscan.io/tx/0x3e93ee75ffeb019f1d841b84695538571946fd9477dcd3ecf0790851f48fbd1a)
- - - [Proposal Factory Deploy - Debug](https://explorer.phalcon.xyz/tx/eth/0x3e93ee75ffeb019f1d841b84695538571946fd9477dcd3ecf0790851f48fbd1a?line=0&debugLine=0)
- - - [Initial Torn Lock - Attacker 2](https://etherscan.io/tx/0xf93536162943bd36df11de6ed11233589bb5f139ff4e9e425cb5256e4349a9b4)
- - **Stage 1**
- - - [Submit Proposal - Attacker 2](https://etherscan.io/tx/0x34605f1d6463a48b818157f7b26d040f8dd329273702a0618e9e74fe350e6e0d)
- - - [Submit Proposal - Debug](https://explorer.phalcon.xyz/tx/eth/0x34605f1d6463a48b818157f7b26d040f8dd329273702a0618e9e74fe350e6e0d?line=0&debugLine=0)
- - **Stage 2**
- - - [Deploy multiple accounts - Attacker 1](https://etherscan.io/tx/0x26672ad9140d11b64964e79d0ed5971c26492786cfe0edf57034229fdc7dc529)
- - - [Deploy multiple accounts - Debug](https://explorer.phalcon.xyz/tx/eth/0x26672ad9140d11b64964e79d0ed5971c26492786cfe0edf57034229fdc7dc529?line=835&debugLine=835)
- - **Stage 3**
- - - [Destroy proposal - Attacker 2](https://etherscan.io/tx/0xd3a570af795405e141988c48527a595434665089117473bc0389e83091391adb)
- - - [Destroy proposal - Debug](https://explorer.phalcon.xyz/tx/eth/0xd3a570af795405e141988c48527a595434665089117473bc0389e83091391adb?line=0&debugLine=0)
- - **Stage 4**
- - - [Redeploy proposal - Attacker 2](https://etherscan.io/tx/0xa7d20ccdbc2365578a106093e82cc9f6ec5d03043bb6a00114c0ad5d03620122)
- - - [Redeploy proposal - Debug](https://explorer.phalcon.xyz/tx/eth/0xa7d20ccdbc2365578a106093e82cc9f6ec5d03043bb6a00114c0ad5d03620122?line=2&debugLine=2)
- - **Stage 5**
- - - [Execute proposal - Attacker 2](https://etherscan.io/tx/0x3274b6090685b842aca80b304a4dcee0f61ef8b6afee10b7c7533c32fb75486d)
- - - [Execute proposal - Debug](https://explorer.phalcon.xyz/tx/eth/0x3274b6090685b842aca80b304a4dcee0f61ef8b6afee10b7c7533c32fb75486d?line=3&debugLine=3)
- - **Stage 6**
- - - [Drain TORN - Attacker 1](https://etherscan.io/tx/0x13e2b7359dd1c13411342fd173750a19252f5b0d92af41be30f9f62167fc5b94)
- - - [Drain TORN - Debug](https://explorer.phalcon.xyz/tx/eth/0x13e2b7359dd1c13411342fd173750a19252f5b0d92af41be30f9f62167fc5b94?line=12&debugLine=12)
- **Attacker Addresses**: 
- - Attacker 1 EOA: [0x592340957ebc9e4afb0e9af221d06fdddf789de9](https://etherscan.io/address/0x592340957ebc9e4afb0e9af221d06fdddf789de9)
- - Attacker 2 EOA: [0x092123663804f8801b9b086b03b98d706f77bd59](https://etherscan.io/address/0x092123663804f8801b9b086b03b98d706f77bd59)
- **Attack Block:**: From `17,248,593` up to `17,304,425`  
- **Date:** May 21, 2023
- **Reproduce:** `forge test --match-contract Exploit_TornadoCashGovernance -vvv`

> **NOTE** 
This reproduction uses a new feature introduced by Coinspect into Foundry in [PR 5033](https://github.com/foundry-rs/foundry/pull/5033) and included in [this nightly release](https://github.com/foundry-rs/foundry/releases/tag/nightly-33f3fee86e502285e01949f3f5249fe0b0e2b6f8)

Make sure to update your foundry version with:

```
$ foundryup
```

Ensure that the installed version is the following or newer:

```
foundryup: installed - forge 0.2.0 (33f3fee 2023-05-26T00:09:41.611811000Z)
```

## Step-by-step Overview
The Tornado Cash Governance system faced an attack that was initiated with what seemed to be a benign proposal. Yet, it contained a concealed instruction that allowed for its replacement. Once governance participants unknowingly approved this seemingly harmless proposal, the attacker overwrote the code at the same address with a new proposal implementation. This sequence of events resulted in the alteration of the Governance storage, followed by the unauthorized removal of `TORN` tokens.

Two accounts played pivotal roles in the incident: Attacker 2 (Proposal Handler) and Attacker 1 (Drainer Controller). Attacker 2 was responsible for managing the proposal's life cycle including its deployment, submission, destruction, re-deployment, and execution. Attacker 1, on the other hand, controlled the drainer contracts which facilitated the unlocking of `TORN` from Tornado Cash.

### **Stage 0: Initial Transactions [Proposal Handler]**
Attacker 2 [withdrawn 10 ETH](https://etherscan.io/tx/0xf1f298d6168cac774cfe356a73380d29aed5429abc1ba785f162a59c85de7867) from Tornado Cash and then [swapped](https://etherscan.io/tx/0x82dca5a88a43377cab4748073a3a46c8aa120d42c5c5d802789cf17df22f0acd) these into 1017 TORN through `1inch`. Concurrently, a `proposal factory`, a `middle` or `transient` and a `proposal` contracts were deployed. Attacker 2 then locked the `1017 TORN` into the Tornado Cash Governance, enabling proposal submission.

### **Stage 1: Proposal Submission [Proposal Handler]**
With the `TORN` tokens now locked, Attacker 2 submitted the proposal to the Tornado Governance. This proposal was structured similarly to [Proposal #16](https://etherscan.io/address/0xd4b776caf2a39aeceb21a5dd7812082e2391b03d#code) but included a [`selfdestruct`](https://explorer.phalcon.xyz/tx/eth/0xd3a570af795405e141988c48527a595434665089117473bc0389e83091391adb?line=3&debugLine=3) instruction within an `emergencyStop` function.

### **Stage 2: Account Creation [Drainer Controller]**
Attacker 1 created 100 subsidiary accounts (minions), locking zero `TORN` balance in Tornado for each one. This last step is a pretty curious yet interesting one, as the attack could have succeeded even without any `TORN` approved and locked by those 100 subsidiary accounts.

### **Stage 3: Proposal Destruction [Proposal Handler]**
Attacker 2 triggered the `emergencyStop` from the factory before the proposal execution, leading to the destruction of both the `proposal` and the `transient` contract. This resets the nonce of the `transient` contract, thus allowing the modification of the `proposal's` implementation.

### **Stage 4: Redeployment [Proposal Handler]**
Attacker 2 then redeployed the `transient` and a new malicious `proposal` on the same addresses as before using `create2` and `create`, relying on the nonce reset of the previous step (relevant for `create`) and on the deterministic deployments via `create2`. More details about this step in the next section.

### **Stage 5: Locked Balance Modification [Proposal Handler]**
Upon proposal execution within the Tornado Cash's context (using `delegatecall`), Attacker 2 employed `sstore` instructions added into the new proposal's implementation to alter the `lockedBalance` mapping of the 100 accounts created by Attacker 1, assigning `10,000` locked `TORN` to each account.

### **Stage 6: Token Transfer [Drainer Controller]**
Once the balance of each minion account was updated, Attacker 1 initiated the `unlock` and `transfer` of `TORN` tokens, directing all the funds to their own account.

## Detailed Description

This attack relies on several important concepts such as different ways of deploying contracts (`create2` and `create`), context of execution (proposals are executed with `delegatecall`), mapping slot calculation (implemented in the malicious proposal). We will dissect them in this section.  

### Deployments with `create` and `create2`

The attacker 2 managed to deploy, destruct and redeploy the `proposal` on the same address. This was possible thanks to the following process:

1) Deploy a factory capable of:
   1) Storing or retrieving the creation code for the initial proposal and the malicious one.
   2) Deploying a `transient` contract with `create2`
   3) Triggering the destruction of the `transient` and the `proposal`
2) The transient deployed, used `create` to deploy the `proposal` and its code was immutable. The attacker was able to deploy two different implementations of the proposal as this was coordinated by the main factory.

**Using `create2` to deploy the `transient`**

The attacker leveraged from salted deployments of an immutable `transient` contract with `create2`:

```solidity
        deployedTransientContract = address(new TransientContract{salt: _salt}());
```

This type of deployments where introduced in the [EIP-1014](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-1014) by Vitalik Buterin (@vbuterin):

> Adds a new opcode (`CREATE2`) at `0xf5`, which takes 4 stack arguments: `endowment`, `memory_start`, `memory_length`, `salt`. Behaves identically to `CREATE` (`0xf0`), except using `keccak256( 0xff ++ address ++ salt ++ keccak256(init_code))[12:]` instead of the usual sender-and-nonce-hash as the address where the contract is initialized at.

```solidity
initialisation_code = memory[offset:offset+size]
address = keccak256(0xff + sender_address + salt + keccak256(initialisation_code))[12:]
```
By not changing the implementation at any point of the `transient` contract, if the deployment is made passing the same `salt`, its address would be always the same, even after `selfdestruct`.

**Using `create` to deploy the `transient`**

The legacy `create` [opcode](https://www.evm.codes/#f0?fork=shanghai) deploys contracts where the destination address is calculated as the rightmost 20 bytes (160 bits) of the `Keccak-256` hash of the encoding of the `sender` address followed by its `nonce`:

```solidity
address = keccak256(rlp([sender_address,sender_nonce]))[12:]
```

**How all comes together after `selfdestruct`?**

The `selfdestruct` [opcode](https://www.evm.codes/#ff?fork=shanghai) empties a contract account setting its `balance` and `nonce` to 0 as well as deleting its code (code size is also set to 0). 

Using a constant implementation of the `transient` allowed the attacker to deploy via the factory with `create2` the `transient` two times at the same address (before and after the destruction). Allowing the subsequent `create` call to also deploy two different proposals in the same address.

The attacker destroyed the `transient` to reset its nonce, allowing this contract to deploy the new malicious proposal to the same address as the sender will be always the same and the nonce will be reset to the same value as the current one when first deploying the initial proposal's implementation. Because the `proposal` is deployed using `create`, the attacker was able to change its implementation at will as `create` does not depend on the deployed bytecode.


### Calculating the memory slots
Once the attacker is able to perform arbitrary modifications on the Governance's storage - because proposals are executed via `delegatecall` - they need to know which storage slots to manipulate. 

The slot that a variable occupies in the storage is predictable and [well documented](https://docs.soliditylang.org/en/v0.8.20/internals/layout_in_storage.html). A variable is put into the position `p`
following the order in which they were defined after applying C3-linearization. We also know that mapping keys are stored on the 
`keccak256(h(k).p)` slot (where `h` is a simple pad to 32-bytes).

The mapping to manipulate, `lockedBalance`, is not actually defined in `Governance`, but instead in `Core`, a contract the `Governance` indirectly inherits from (by inheriting from `Delegation`). 
Because inheritance is used, linearization order is actually important.

```solidity
contract Governance is Initializable, Configuration, Delegation, EnsResolve {
```

At this point, the attacker has several options to calculate to find `p`, including some pen and paper. For us, the most reliable way 
was simply to go to the bytecode of the contract. We know there is a `lockedBalance(address)` method, as the mapping is public. 
We can calculate its signature using `cast`:

```bash
$ cast sig 'lockedBalance(address)'
0x9ae697bf
```

Using a [Solidity decompiler](https://ethervm.io/decompile), we find the dispatch entry for that method in the bytecode:

```
    } else if (var0 == 0x9ae697bf) {
        // Dispatch table entry for lockedBalance(address)
        var1 = msg.value;
    
        if (var1) { revert(memory[0x00:0x00]); }
    
        var1 = 0x03b7;
        var2 = 0x063b;
        var3 = msg.data.length;
        var4 = 0x04;
        var2 = func_2982(var3, var4);
        var2 = func_063B(var2);
        goto label_03B7;
```

After some digging, we realize `func_063B` must be our candidate, and `var2` must be the `address` used as input.

```
   function func_063B(var arg0) returns (var arg0) {
        memory[0x20:0x40] = 0x3b;
        memory[0x00:0x20] = arg0;
        return storage[keccak256(memory[0x00:0x40])];
    }
```

That looks exactly like what we are after: it concatenates `address | 0x3b` and returns the storage at point `storage[keccak256(h(address)|h(0x3b))]`.

So know we know that `p` is `0x3b` and we can now write in the appropriate storage slots by doing an `SSTORE`.

### Context of execution
Tornado Cash Governance [executes](https://explorer.phalcon.xyz/tx/eth/0x3274b6090685b842aca80b304a4dcee0f61ef8b6afee10b7c7533c32fb75486d?line=2&debugLine=2) proposals with `delegatecall()`:

```solidity
  function execute(uint256 proposalId) external payable virtual {
    require(state(proposalId) == ProposalState.AwaitingExecution, "Governance::execute: invalid proposal state");
    Proposal storage proposal = proposals[proposalId];
    proposal.executed = true;

    address target = proposal.target;
    require(Address.isContract(target), "Governance::execute: not a contract");
    (bool success, bytes memory data) = target.delegatecall(abi.encodeWithSignature("executeProposal()"));
    if (!success) {
      if (data.length > 0) {
        revert(string(data));
      } else {
        revert("Proposal execution failed");
      }
    }

    emit ProposalExecuted(proposalId);
  }
```

This opcode works by running the code of another contract (referred to as an external implementation) within the context of the initiating contract. While the operations are governed by the code of the external contract, any changes made during the execution, such as variable modifications and logical operations, directly impact the state of the initiating contract.

Because the call is executed in the context of Tornado Cash the attacker was able to write the mapping slots for each one of the minions with the process shown above by executing the malicious proposal with the additional `sstore` instructions:

```solidity
    // For educational purposes, how to get the slot for a mapping key, knowing the mapping's slot
    function getStorageSlot(address account, uint256 slot) public pure returns (bytes32 hashSlot) {
        assembly {
            // Store account in memory scratch space
            mstore(0, account)
            // Store slot number in memory after the account
            mstore(32, slot)
            // Get the hash from previously stored account and slot
            hashSlot := keccak256(0, 64)
        }
    }

    // Write the slot for a mapping key, the initial mapping slot must be known (storage stack)
    function writeSlot(address account, uint256 value, uint256 slot) public {
        bytes32 slotHash = getStorageSlot(account, slot);
        assembly {
            sstore(slotHash, value)
        }
    }
```
## Possible mitigations

1. Governance contracts should check that the `code` that was voted is exactly the same that is going to be executed and revert otherwise.
